---
layout: post
title: FM toxicity / harmful outputs 
lecture: W7-LLM-harm
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: team-3
video: team-1
tags:
- Safety
---

In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 

### HarmBench: A Standardized Evaluation Framework for Automated Red Teaming and Robust Refusal
+ https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04249
+ Automated red teaming holds substantial promise for uncovering and mitigating the risks associated with the malicious use of large language models (LLMs), yet the field lacks a standardized evaluation framework to rigorously assess new methods. To address this issue, we introduce HarmBench, a standardized evaluation framework for automated red teaming. We identify several desirable properties previously unaccounted for in red teaming evaluations and systematically design HarmBench to meet these criteria. Using HarmBench, we conduct a large-scale comparison of 18 red teaming methods and 33 target LLMs and defenses, yielding novel insights. We also introduce a highly efficient adversarial training method that greatly enhances LLM robustness across a wide range of attacks, demonstrating how HarmBench enables codevelopment of attacks and defenses. We open source HarmBench at this https URL.

### Sleeper Agents: Training Deceptive LLMs that Persist Through Safety Training
+ https://www.anthropic.com/news/sleeper-agents-training-deceptive-llms-that-persist-through-safety-training
+ Humans are capable of strategically deceptive behavior: behaving helpfully in most situations, but then behaving very differently in order to pursue alternative objectives when given the opportunity. If an AI system learned such a deceptive strategy, could we detect it and remove it using current state-of-the-art safety training techniques? To study this question, we construct proof-of-concept examples of deceptive behavior in large language models (LLMs). For example, we train models that write secure code when the prompt states that the year is 2023, but insert exploitable code when the stated year is 2024. We find that such backdoor behavior can be made persistent, so that it is not removed by standard safety training techniques, including supervised fine-tuning, reinforcement learning, and adversarial training (eliciting unsafe behavior and then training to remove it). The backdoor behavior is most persistent in the largest models and in models trained to produce chain-of-thought reasoning about deceiving the training process, with the persistence remaining even when the chain-of-thought is distilled away. Furthermore, rather than removing backdoors, we find that adversarial training can teach models to better recognize their backdoor triggers, effectively hiding the unsafe behavior. Our results suggest that, once a model exhibits deceptive behavior, standard techniques could fail to remove such deception and create a false impression of safety.

## More Readings: 

### SafeText: A Benchmark for Exploring Physical Safety in Language Models
  + https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.10045
  + Understanding what constitutes safe text is an important issue in natural language processing and can often prevent the deployment of models deemed harmful and unsafe. One such type of safety that has been scarcely studied is commonsense physical safety, i.e. text that is not explicitly violent and requires additional commonsense knowledge to comprehend that it leads to physical harm. We create the first benchmark dataset, SafeText, comprising real-life scenarios with paired safe and physically unsafe pieces of advice. We utilize SafeText to empirically study commonsense physical safety across various models designed for text generation and commonsense reasoning tasks. We find that state-of-the-art large language models are susceptible to the generation of unsafe text and have difficulty rejecting unsafe advice. As a result, we argue for further studies of safety and the assessment of commonsense physical safety in models before release.



### Fine-tuning Aligned Language Models Compromises Safety, Even When Users Do Not Intend To!
  + https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03693

### Lessons learned on language model safety and misuse
  + https://openai.com/research/language-model-safety-and-misuse

### Planning red teaming for large language models (LLMs) and their applications
  https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/concepts/red-teaming 

 
### ASSERT: Automated Safety Scenario Red Teaming for Evaluating the Robustness of Large Language Models
  + https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.09624



