---
layout: post
title: More FM risk 
lecture: 
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: team-5
video: team-3
tags:
- Safety
desc: 2024-S13
term: 2024-seminarRead
categories:
- FMRisk
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 

### On the Dangers of Stochastic Parrots: Can Language Models Be Too Big?
  + https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3442188.3445922
  + The past 3 years of work in NLP have been characterized by the development and deployment of ever larger language models, especially for English. BERT, its variants, GPT-2/3, and others, most recently Switch-C, have pushed the boundaries of the possible both through architectural innovations and through sheer size. Using these pretrained models and the methodology of fine-tuning them for specific tasks, researchers have extended the state of the art on a wide array of tasks as measured by leaderboards on specific benchmarks for English. In this paper, we take a step back and ask: How big is too big? What are the possible risks associated with this technology and what paths are available for mitigating those risks? We provide recommendations including weighing the environmental and financial costs first, investing resources into curating and carefully documenting datasets rather than ingesting everything on the web, carrying out pre-development exercises evaluating how the planned approach fits into research and development goals and supports stakeholder values, and encouraging research directions beyond ever larger language models.

## More Readings: 


### Low-Resource Languages Jailbreak GPT-4
+ AI safety training and red-teaming of large language models (LLMs) are measures to mitigate the generation of unsafe content. Our work exposes the inherent cross-lingual vulnerability of these safety mechanisms, resulting from the linguistic inequality of safety training data, by successfully circumventing GPT-4's safeguard through translating unsafe English inputs into low-resource languages. On the AdvBenchmark, GPT-4 engages with the unsafe translated inputs and provides actionable items that can get the users towards their harmful goals 79% of the time, which is on par with or even surpassing state-of-the-art jailbreaking attacks. Other high-/mid-resource languages have significantly lower attack success rate, which suggests that the cross-lingual vulnerability mainly applies to low-resource languages. Previously, limited training on low-resource languages primarily affects speakers of those languages, causing technological disparities. However, our work highlights a crucial shift: this deficiency now poses a risk to all LLMs users. Publicly available translation APIs enable anyone to exploit LLMs' safety vulnerabilities. Therefore, our work calls for a more holistic red-teaming efforts to develop robust multilingual safeguards with wide language coverage.






### A Survey of Safety and Trustworthiness of Large Language Models through the Lens of Verification and Validation
  + https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.11391 
  + Large Language Models (LLMs) have exploded a new heatwave of AI for their ability to engage end-users in human-level conversations with detailed and articulate answers across many knowledge domains. In response to their fast adoption in many industrial applications, this survey concerns their safety and trustworthiness. First, we review known vulnerabilities and limitations of the LLMs, categorising them into inherent issues, attacks, and unintended bugs. Then, we consider if and how the Verification and Validation (V&V) techniques, which have been widely developed for traditional software and deep learning models such as convolutional neural networks as independent processes to check the alignment of their implementations against the specifications, can be integrated and further extended throughout the lifecycle of the LLMs to provide rigorous analysis to the safety and trustworthiness of LLMs and their applications. Specifically, we consider four complementary techniques: falsification and evaluation, verification, runtime monitoring, and regulations and ethical use. In total, 370+ references are considered to support the quick understanding of the safety and trustworthiness issues from the perspective of V&V. While intensive research has been conducted to identify the safety and trustworthiness issues, rigorous yet practical methods are called for to ensure the alignment of LLMs with safety and trustworthiness requirements.


## Even  More

### ToxicChat: Unveiling Hidden Challenges of Toxicity Detection in Real-World User-AI Conversation / EMNLP2023

+ Despite remarkable advances that large language models have achieved in chatbots nowadays, maintaining a non-toxic user-AI interactive environment has become increasingly critical nowadays. However, previous efforts in toxicity detection have been mostly based on benchmarks derived from social media contents, leaving the unique challenges inherent to real-world user-AI interactions insufficiently explored. In this work, we introduce ToxicChat, a novel benchmark constructed based on real user queries from an open-source chatbot. This benchmark contains the rich, nuanced phenomena that can be tricky for current toxicity detection models to identify, revealing a significant domain difference when compared to social media contents. Our systematic evaluation of models trained on existing toxicity datasets has shown their shortcomings when applied to this unique domain of ToxicChat. Our work illuminates the potentially overlooked challenges of toxicity detection in real-world user-AI conversations. In the future, ToxicChat can be a valuable resource to drive further advancements toward building a safe and healthy environment for user-AI interactions.


### OpenAI on LLM generated bio-x-risk
+ Building an early warning system for LLM-aided biological threat creation
+ https://openai.com/research/building-an-early-warning-system-for-llm-aided-biological-threat-creation


### A misleading open letter about sci-fi AI dangers ignores the real risks
  https://www.aisnakeoil.com/p/a-misleading-open-letter-about-sci

### Evaluating social and ethical risks from generative AI
  + https://deepmind.google/discover/blog/evaluating-social-and-ethical-risks-from-generative-ai/



### Managing Existential Risk from AI without Undercutting Innovation
  + https://www.csis.org/analysis/managing-existential-risk-ai-without-undercutting-innovation



