---
layout: post
title: LLM Agents 
lecture: 
lectureVersion: next
extraContent: 
notes: team-6
video: team-2
tags:
- 1Basic
---

In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 

### A Survey on Large Language Model based Autonomous Agents
  + https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.11432


## More Readings: 

### Practices for Governing Agentic AI Systems
+ https://cdn.openai.com/papers/practices-for-governing-agentic-ai-systems.pdf
+ Agentic AI systems—AI systems that can pursue complex goals with limited direct supervision— are likely to be broadly useful if we can integrate them responsibly into our society. While such systems have substantial potential to help people more efficiently and effectively achieve their own goals, they also create risks of harm. In this white paper, we suggest a definition of agentic AI systems and the parties in the agentic AI system life-cycle, and highlight the importance of agreeing on a set of baseline responsibilities and safety best practices for each of these parties. As our primary contribution, we offer an initial set of practices for keeping agents’ operations safe and accountable, which we hope can serve as building blocks in the development of agreed baseline best practices. We enumerate the questions and uncertainties around operationalizing each of these practices that must be addressed before such practices can be codified. We then highlight categories of indirect impacts from the wide-scale adoption of agentic AI systems, which are likely to necessitate additional governance frameworks.



### Emergent autonomous scientific research capabilities of large language models
  + https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.05332
  + Transformer-based large language models are rapidly advancing in the field of machine learning research, with applications spanning natural language, biology, chemistry, and computer programming. Extreme scaling and reinforcement learning from human feedback have significantly improved the quality of generated text, enabling these models to perform various tasks and reason about their choices. In this paper, we present an Intelligent Agent system that combines multiple large language models for autonomous design, planning, and execution of scientific experiments. We showcase the Agent's scientific research capabilities with three distinct examples, with the most complex being the successful performance of catalyzed cross-coupling reactions. Finally, we discuss the safety implications of such systems and propose measures to prevent their misuse.