---
layout: post
title: FM privacy leakage issues 
lecture: 
lectureVersion: next
extraContent: 
notes: team-1
video: team-4
tags:
- 1Basic
---

In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 

### Are Large Pre-Trained Language Models Leaking Your Personal Information?
+ https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.12628
+ Jie Huang, Hanyin Shao, Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang
Are Large Pre-Trained Language Models Leaking Your Personal Information? In this paper, we analyze whether Pre-Trained Language Models (PLMs) are prone to leaking personal information. Specifically, we query PLMs for email addresses with contexts of the email address or prompts containing the owner's name. We find that PLMs do leak personal information due to memorization. However, since the models are weak at association, the risk of specific personal information being extracted by attackers is low. We hope this work could help the community to better understand the privacy risk of PLMs and bring new insights to make PLMs safe.

### Privacy Risks of General-Purpose Language Models
  + https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9152761
+ We find the text embeddings from general-purpose language models would capture much sensitive information from the plain text. Once being accessed by the adversary, the embeddings can be reverse-engineered to disclose sensitive information of the victims for further harassment. Although such a privacy risk can impose a real threat to the future leverage of these promising NLP tools, there are neither published attacks nor systematic evaluations by far for the mainstream industry-level language models. To bridge this gap, we present the first systematic study on the privacy risks of 8 state-of-the-art language models with 4 diverse case studies. By constructing 2 novel attack classes, our study demonstrates the aforementioned privacy risks do exist and can impose practical threats to the application of general-purpose language models on sensitive data covering identity, genome, healthcare and location. For example, we show the adversary with nearly no prior knowledge can achieve about 75% accuracy when inferring the precise disease site from Bert embeddings of patients’ medical descriptions. As possible countermeasures, we propose 4 different defenses (via rounding, different...

## More Readings: 

### Privacy in Large Language Models: Attacks, Defenses and Future Directions
+ https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.10383
+ The advancement of large language models (LLMs) has significantly enhanced the ability to effectively tackle various downstream NLP tasks and unify these tasks into generative pipelines. On the one hand, powerful language models, trained on massive textual data, have brought unparalleled accessibility and usability for both models and users. On the other hand, unrestricted access to these models can also introduce potential malicious and unintentional privacy risks. Despite ongoing efforts to address the safety and privacy concerns associated with LLMs, the problem remains unresolved. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive analysis of the current privacy attacks targeting LLMs and categorize them according to the adversary's assumed capabilities to shed light on the potential vulnerabilities present in LLMs. Then, we present a detailed overview of prominent defense strategies that have been developed to counter these privacy attacks. Beyond existing works, we identify upcoming privacy concerns as LLMs evolve. Lastly, we point out several potential avenues for future exploration.

### ProPILE: Probing Privacy Leakage in Large Language Models
+ https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.01881
+ Siwon Kim, Sangdoo Yun, Hwaran Lee, Martin Gubri, Sungroh Yoon, Seong Joon Oh
The rapid advancement and widespread use of large language models (LLMs) have raised significant concerns regarding the potential leakage of personally identifiable information (PII). These models are often trained on vast quantities of web-collected data, which may inadvertently include sensitive personal data. This paper presents ProPILE, a novel probing tool designed to empower data subjects, or the owners of the PII, with awareness of potential PII leakage in LLM-based services. ProPILE lets data subjects formulate prompts based on their own PII to evaluate the level of privacy intrusion in LLMs. We demonstrate its application on the OPT-1.3B model trained on the publicly available Pile dataset. We show how hypothetical data subjects may assess the likelihood of their PII being included in the Pile dataset being revealed. ProPILE can also be leveraged by LLM service providers to effectively evaluate their own levels of PII leakage with more powerful prompts specifically tuned for their in-house models. This tool represents a pioneering step towards empowering the data subjects for their awareness and control over their own data on the web.




