---
layout: post
title: LLM multimodal / multilingual harm responses  
lecture: 
lectureVersion: next
extraContent: 
notes: team-4
video: team-3
tags:
- 1Basic
---

In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 


### Cheating Suffix: Targeted Attack to Text-To-Image Diffusion Models with Multi-Modal Priors
+ Dingcheng Yang, Yang Bai, Xiaojun Jia, Yang Liu, Xiaochun Cao, Wenjian Yu
+ Diffusion models have been widely deployed in various image generation tasks, demonstrating an extraordinary connection between image and text modalities. However, they face challenges of being maliciously exploited to generate harmful or sensitive images by appending a specific suffix to the original prompt. Existing works mainly focus on using single-modal information to conduct attacks, which fails to utilize multi-modal features and results in less than satisfactory performance. Integrating multi-modal priors (MMP), i.e. both text and image features, we propose a targeted attack method named MMP-Attack in this work. Specifically, the goal of MMP-Attack is to add a target object into the image content while simultaneously removing the original object. The MMP-Attack shows a notable advantage over existing works with superior universality and transferability, which can effectively attack commercial text-to-image (T2I) models such as DALL-E 3. To the best of our knowledge, this marks the first successful attempt of transfer-based attack to commercial T2I models. Our code is publicly available at ....


### A Pilot Study of Query-Free Adversarial Attack against Stable Diffusion
+ https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10208563
+ Despite the record-breaking performance in Text-to-Image (T2I) generation by Stable Diffusion, less research attention is paid to its adversarial robustness. In this work, we study the problem of adversarial attack generation for Stable Diffusion and ask if an adversarial text prompt can be obtained even in the absence of end-to-end model queries. We call the resulting problem ‘query-free attack generation’. To resolve this problem, we show that the vulnerability of T2I models is rooted in the lack of robustness of text encoders, e.g., the CLIP text encoder used for attacking Stable Diffusion. Based on such insight, we propose both untargeted and targeted query-free attacks, where the former is built on the most influential dimensions in the text embedding space, which we call steerable key dimensions. By leveraging the proposed attacks, we empirically show that only a five-character perturbation to the text prompt is able to cause the significant content shift of synthesized images using Stable Diffusion. Moreover, we show that the proposed target attack can precisely steer the diffusion model to scrub the targeted image content without causing much change in untargeted image content.


## More Readings: 


### Low-Resource Languages Jailbreak GPT-4
+ AI safety training and red-teaming of large language models (LLMs) are measures to mitigate the generation of unsafe content. Our work exposes the inherent cross-lingual vulnerability of these safety mechanisms, resulting from the linguistic inequality of safety training data, by successfully circumventing GPT-4's safeguard through translating unsafe English inputs into low-resource languages. On the AdvBenchmark, GPT-4 engages with the unsafe translated inputs and provides actionable items that can get the users towards their harmful goals 79% of the time, which is on par with or even surpassing state-of-the-art jailbreaking attacks. Other high-/mid-resource languages have significantly lower attack success rate, which suggests that the cross-lingual vulnerability mainly applies to low-resource languages. Previously, limited training on low-resource languages primarily affects speakers of those languages, causing technological disparities. However, our work highlights a crucial shift: this deficiency now poses a risk to all LLMs users. Publicly available translation APIs enable anyone to exploit LLMs' safety vulnerabilities. Therefore, our work calls for a more holistic red-teaming efforts to develop robust multilingual safeguards with wide language coverage.

### Visual Instruction Tuning
+ Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, Yong Jae Lee
+ Instruction tuning large language models (LLMs) using machine-generated instruction-following data has improved zero-shot capabilities on new tasks, but the idea is less explored in the multimodal field. In this paper, we present the first attempt to use language-only GPT-4 to generate multimodal language-image instruction-following data. By instruction tuning on such generated data, we introduce LLaVA: Large Language and Vision Assistant, an end-to-end trained large multimodal model that connects a vision encoder and LLM for general-purpose visual and language understanding.Our early experiments show that LLaVA demonstrates impressive multimodel chat abilities, sometimes exhibiting the behaviors of multimodal GPT-4 on unseen images/instructions, and yields a 85.1% relative score compared with GPT-4 on a synthetic multimodal instruction-following dataset. When fine-tuned on Science QA, the synergy of LLaVA and GPT-4 achieves a new state-of-the-art accuracy of 92.53%. We make GPT-4 generated visual instruction tuning data, our model and code base publicly available.


### GOAT-Bench: Safety Insights to Large Multimodal Models through Meme-Based Social Abuse
  + https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01523

### Misusing Tools in Large Language Models With Visual Adversarial Examples
  + https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03185

  

### Red Teaming Language Models to Reduce Harms: Methods, Scaling Behaviors, and Lessons Learned
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.07858



