---
layout: post
title: FM copyright infrigement 
lecture: 
lectureVersion: next
extraContent: 
notes: team-5
video: team-6
tags:
- 1Basic
---

In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 

### A Comprehensive Survey of AI-Generated Content (AIGC): A History of Generative AI from GAN to ChatGPT
  + https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.04226
  + Recently, ChatGPT, along with DALL-E-2 and Codex,has been gaining significant attention from society. As a result, many individuals have become interested in related resources and are seeking to uncover the background and secrets behind its impressive performance. In fact, ChatGPT and other Generative AI (GAI) techniques belong to the category of Artificial Intelligence Generated Content (AIGC), which involves the creation of digital content, such as images, music, and natural language, through AI models. The goal of AIGC is to make the content creation process more efficient and accessible, allowing for the production of high-quality content at a faster pace. AIGC is achieved by extracting and understanding intent information from instructions provided by human, and generating the content according to its knowledge and the intent information. In recent years, large-scale models have become increasingly important in AIGC as they provide better intent extraction and thus, improved generation results. With the growth of data and the size of the models, the distribution that the model can learn becomes more comprehensive and closer to reality, leading to more realistic and high-quality content generation. This survey provides a comprehensive review on the history of generative models, and basic components, recent advances in AIGC from unimodal interaction and multimodal interaction. From the perspective of unimodality, we introduce the generation tasks and relative models of text and image. From the perspective of multimodality, we introduce the cross-application between the modalities mentioned above. Finally, we discuss the existing open problems and future challenges in AIGC.

## More Readings: 

###  Copyright Plug-in Market for The Text-to-Image Copyright Protection
+ https://openreview.net/forum?id=pSf8rrn49H 

### Audio Deepfake Detection: A Survey
+ https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.14970
+ Audio deepfake detection is an emerging active topic. A growing number of literatures have aimed to study deepfake detection algorithms and achieved effective performance, the problem of which is far from being solved. Although there are some review literatures, there has been no comprehensive survey that provides researchers with a systematic overview of these developments with a unified evaluation. Accordingly, in this survey paper, we first highlight the key differences across various types of deepfake audio, then outline and analyse competitions, datasets, features, classifications, and evaluation of state-of-the-art approaches. For each aspect, the basic techniques, advanced developments and major challenges are discussed. In addition, we perform a unified comparison of representative features and classifiers on ASVspoof 2021, ADD 2023 and In-the-Wild datasets for audio deepfake detection, respectively. The survey shows that future research should address the lack of large scale datasets in the wild, poor generalization of existing detection methods to unknown fake attacks, as well as interpretability of detection results.

### Membership Inference Attacks against Language Models via Neighbourhood Comparison
https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-acl.719/ 


### Deepfake Taylor Swift event: 
+ https://www.cbsnews.com/news/taylor-swift-artificial-intellignence-ai-4chan/



